doc/source/configopts.rst, before:

Jobs file options
=================

The jobs file ``~/dardrive/jobs.cfg`` is a ini-style text file whith a per-job
config section, which inherit options from a mandatory ``[global]`` section. 

archive_store 
    This is where backups are stored, the same archive store can be
    defined in a multiple jobs as it will be appended by the job name.

catalog_begin
    When importing an archive_store, archives produced before this date won't
    get isolated and loaded in the dmd, thus, filesystem recovery of previous
    archives must be performed manually. If this value is changed later on (ex:
    to minimize the size of the dmd), you'll provably need to recreate the
    (with the rebuild_dmd command) or manually remove previous entries from t
    (which is not advisable).

catalog_store 
    This is where DAR's isolated catalogs are stored, the same archive store
    can be defined in a multiple jobs as it will be appended by the job name.

compr
    Possible values are configparser's negative values, or the compression
    algorithm suported by DAR, "gzip" "bzip2" or "lzo".

compr_exempt
    A regular expression as DAR(1) "alter regex", matching elements
    are excluded from compression.

compr_level
    An integer from 1 to 9 that controls the compression level.

compr_min
    Integer, files which size is below this value will not be compressed
    as in "dar -m". 

dar_bin
    Should point to the dar binary file.

dar_manager_bin 
    Should point to the dar_manager binary file.

recover_path
    The directory on which dar_manager will restore files to, it defaults to ``/tmp``

diffdays
    The maximum time allowed between incrementals expressed in days, ex: if
    diffdays is 7, and a backup job is run once a day, then dardrive will
    produce a full backup every 7 days. 

email_from
    The sender address used when sending email reports.

email_to
    The recipient used to adress the message to when sending email reports.

exclude_file
    A file containing a listing of files to be excluded from the backup
    operation, exactly as ``--exclude-from-file`` dar's option, see DAR(1).

exclude_regex
    A regular expression passed to dar via the -ar -X switches. It can be
    deactivated with negative configparser's booleans (no, false, 0)

encryption
    A string representing the encryption algorithm and password as in "dar
    -K": <algo>:password. When running a database dump the algorithm is set
    to aes-cbc 256, and is handled by OpenSSL. 

local_store
    A temporary directory where archives are created if the par_local option is
    set, usually needed when the archive_store is a remote location and the job
    is configured to produce parity files, in which case, producing them
    locally results in network IO saving.  After parity files are produced,
    they are moved to the archive_store. This filesystem mus have enough space
    to hold at leas a slice and its parity data.

mysql
    Enables mysql dump. Expects boolean values.

mysql_compr
    Enables mysql compression of dump archives. Expects boolean values.

mysql_host
    Host name passed to mysql_dump.

mysql_user
    User name passed to mysql_dump via a --defaults-extra-file.

mysql_password
    password passed to mysql_dump via a --defaults-extra-file.

openssl_bin
    Should point to the openssl binary file.

par_bin
    Should point to the par binary file.

par_local
    If this option is set, archives and error correction files are created in the
    local_store and moved to the archive_store after each slice is created.

par_mem
    Memory used by the par2 binary as in "par2 -m".

redundancy
    Level of redundancy of parity files as in "par2 -r".

report_success
    If send_email is set, report successful operations via email, otherwise
    only errors are reported.
    
root
    Points to the directory tree containing all the files that will be
    used in the filesystem backup operation as a source.
    
same_fs
    Boolean which tells dar to include only files in the same filesystem of
    ``root`` in the backups.

send_email
    Boolean which enables email reporting.

slice
    A string representing the slice size as in dar ``--slice``. Possible values
    are boolean negative values, or a string composed of an integer optionally
    appended by  one of : K, M, G, T, P E, Z or  Y. See DAR(1).

smtp_server
    Specifies the smtp server to be used, it can be a host name or a
    hostname:port string. if the port is 587, STARTTLS will be used.

smtp_user
    When using TLS, the smtp user name.

smtp_pass
    When using TLS, the smtp password.

subject
    Subject used in the email reports.

Commit message:

* xattr writing is now optional.
* The "show archive" code now correctly displays the time.
* archive_store and catalog_store are now validated, and report an error.
* Catch and report errors when saving extended attributes.
* Added an option which disables xattr writing.
* Now dardrive detects and reports when archive_store and catalog_store
  point to the same location.
* Added a "show ver" subcommand that shows the dardrive version.
* Show archives now reports running jobs.
* Check for path existence where rebuilding the catalogs.
* Fix dmd rebuilding locking bug

doc/source/configopts.rst, after:

Jobs file options
=================

The jobs file ``~/dardrive/jobs.cfg`` is a ini-style text file whith a per-job
config section, which inherit options from a mandatory ``[global]`` section. 

archive_store 
    This is where backups are stored, the same archive store can be
    defined in a multiple jobs as it will be appended by the job name.

catalog_begin
    When importing an archive_store, archives produced before this date won't
    get isolated and loaded in the dmd, thus, filesystem recovery of previous
    archives must be performed manually. If this value is changed later on (ex:
    to minimize the size of the dmd), you'll provably need to recreate the
    (with the rebuild_dmd command) or manually remove previous entries from t
    (which is not advisable).

catalog_store 
    This is where DAR's isolated catalogs are stored, the same archive store
    can be defined in a multiple jobs as it will be appended by the job name.

compr
    Possible values are configparser's negative values, or the compression
    algorithm suported by DAR, "gzip" "bzip2" or "lzo".

compr_exempt
    A regular expression as DAR(1) "alter regex", matching elements
    are excluded from compression.

compr_level
    An integer from 1 to 9 that controls the compression level.

compr_min
    Integer, files which size is below this value will not be compressed
    as in "dar -m". 

dar_bin
    Should point to the dar binary file.

dar_manager_bin 
    Should point to the dar_manager binary file.

recover_path
    The directory on which dar_manager will restore files to, it defaults to ``/tmp``

diffdays
    The maximum time allowed between incrementals expressed in days, ex: if
    diffdays is 7, and a backup job is run once a day, then dardrive will
    produce a full backup every 7 days. 

email_from
    The sender address used when sending email reports.

email_to
    The recipient used to adress the message to when sending email reports.

exclude_file
    A file containing a listing of files to be excluded from the backup
    operation, exactly as ``--exclude-from-file`` dar's option, see DAR(1).

exclude_regex
    A regular expression passed to dar via the -ar -X switches. It can be
    deactivated with negative configparser's booleans (no, false, 0)

encryption
    A string representing the encryption algorithm and password as in "dar
    -K": <algo>:password. When running a database dump the algorithm is set
    to aes-cbc 256, and is handled by OpenSSL. 

local_store
    A temporary directory where archives are created if the par_local option is
    set, usually needed when the archive_store is a remote location and the job
    is configured to produce parity files, in which case, producing them
    locally results in network IO saving.  After parity files are produced,
    they are moved to the archive_store. This filesystem mus have enough space
    to hold at leas a slice and its parity data.

mysql
    Enables mysql dump. Expects boolean values.

mysql_compr
    Enables mysql compression of dump archives. Expects boolean values.

mysql_host
    Host name passed to mysql_dump.

mysql_user
    User name passed to mysql_dump via a --defaults-extra-file.

mysql_password
    password passed to mysql_dump via a --defaults-extra-file.

openssl_bin
    Should point to the openssl binary file.

par_bin
    Should point to the par binary file.

par_local
    If this option is set, archives and error correction files are created in the
    local_store and moved to the archive_store after each slice is created.

par_mem
    Memory used by the par2 binary as in "par2 -m".

redundancy
    Level of redundancy of parity files as in "par2 -r".

report_success
    If send_email is set, report successful operations via email, otherwise
    only errors are reported.
    
root
    Points to the directory tree containing all the files that will be
    used in the filesystem backup operation as a source.
    
save_xattr
    Boolean which tells dar to save extended attributes.

same_fs
    Boolean which tells dar to include only files in the same filesystem of
    ``root`` in the backups.

send_email
    Boolean which enables email reporting.

slice
    A string representing the slice size as in dar ``--slice``. Possible values
    are boolean negative values, or a string composed of an integer optionally
    appended by  one of : K, M, G, T, P E, Z or  Y. See DAR(1).

smtp_server
    Specifies the smtp server to be used, it can be a host name or a
    hostname:port string. if the port is 587, STARTTLS will be used.

smtp_user
    When using TLS, the smtp user name.

smtp_pass
    When using TLS, the smtp password.

subject
    Subject used in the email reports.
